Mosaic

This program converts a 256 colour sprite into a mosaic made up of irregular
tiles.

It works like this:

The program asks for a spritefile and the name for the new spritefile it is
going to make. You don't need to supply the new name, if you press return,
the program just makes the mosaic on the screen.
The spritefile is examined, and a spritearea which is 1.3 times larger than
the file is initiated. Now the spritefile is loaded, and the name of the
first sprite in this file is determined. This sprite is examined, and the
width and height of the sprite is determined. This information is used to
make a new sprite with the same width and height, but only in black and
white. This new sprite is filled with a irregular grid. This grid is to be
used as the skeleton for the tiling process.
 
The tiling process works like this: Each point in the sprite with the grid is
examined, and if it is black, a special fill procedure is invoked. The fill
procedure fills the tile, but also stores the coordinates of the filled
points. These coordinates is used to examine the corresponding points in the
loaded sprite. The colour number of these points is being split up in RGB and
TINT values, and added in separate registers. When all the points in the tile
has been examined in this way, the values of the registers is being divided
by the number of pixels in this particular tile, thus obtaining an average
colour for the tile. The RGB and TINT values is now being used to select a
colour in the 256 colour palette, which is to be used in the finished tile,
which is being plotted as mosaic tiles on the screen.

When all tiles has been plotted, the program checks if a valid name has been
given for the new spritefile, and if this is the case, the mosaic is saved as
a spritefile with the given name, and a sprite with the name "mosaic".

The entire process is slow, and can only work properly if the width and
height of the sprite is smaller than the width and height of the screen.

The finished mosaic works like a pointilist picture. When wieved at close
range, you only see a rough outline of the picture, but if wieved from a
distance, new details seem to enter the picture.
